---
---
Aesthetics, what's that?

This isn't a discourse on what constitutes beauty. I am not good at it, in fact you might have a much better understanding of the discipline. However for all it's subjectivity there seems to be a universal consesus on what is certainly not beautiful or in simple words what is ugly? For example garbage doesn't hold any aesthetic value for whosoever born in whichever culture, it's something we must always get rid of. So this post tries to bring to the light not presence of aesthetic sense but lack of it.

I visit a 10th century temple, I start to admire the art work, the quality of stones, the shear power those huge pillars display. But then my eyes drift some of the modern age things attaching themselves to the temple structure which distract my experience and almost makes me give up my pursuit of appreciation. An Oil paint applied to the stones near the stairs, now who the hell paints perfectly black, rough, wethered stones who have stood the test of time. It's just not done and is plain ugly if you care to notice. Well it doesn't stop with that, there are plenty of (khila) at every possible corner somewhere big rods are dangling dangerously adorning a newly placed bell, somewhere a heavily corroded metal board hangs warning pilgrims to take care of their footware. and not to mention the plentiful strands of electricity wires attaching themselves to temple top ( to of temple name). All this patchwork beats the shit out of assumed ancientness of this marvel, making you give up the idea of a nice picture. Many of the current problems would have been taken care of if we could thing from the angle of the makers of the temple. They didn't spend extravagant amounts of money to become like this some day. Some things cannot be avoided but a mere thought that we need to maintain the beauty of the place will set us into right thinking.

A visit to a bustling railway station, Plenty of dust, a peculiar smell from the burnt up lubrication oil in the tracks, mixed with nauseating smell of bio hazardous element called PAAN at corner of every pillar and by the edge of the platform, and not to mention the toiled on the platform which extra ordinarily manages to not leak the waste from it's wall although it cannot help contain the stench. The pillars are so fucking stained, no detergent in the world can clean them, railway house cleaning staff give their best shot, but if work needs to be completed they might as well clean one pillar in a day or a week maybe. And not to mention dogs; railways offer the best shelters in the cities for these homeless canines. Enough said, as I write this I am not saying I am some sort of evangelist who is pure and clean himself and stating the poor condition of someone infact I am responsible for most of this in one way or another.

Ahh third century bc fort, big ramparts, huge doors, some say even elephants couldn't break it. Wait a second why did the king had to profess his love for his queen on this small unnoticable stone. And I wonder if the cupid symbol of arrow in heart existed back then. Well as it turns out the kings belongs to the 21st century and there are plenty of them. They are professing their love on every possible rockface on every possible hill and fort. Love is blind and by the way those are rocks they don't have any heart. Talibanis blasted the 100ft Buddha statues in Afghanistan to prove their point. We are just trying to bring a sign of permenance to our supposed relationship with help of these invincible rocks. And well the restoration work with plenty of modern age cement patching, odd brick work etc. is just fine you know. The structure must survive, that's all. Why attach word archelogical with these activities, they might as well be called civil contract works.

The great purssians took pride in calling themselves gardners and infact diverted huge resources to construct such gardens. The hanging gardens of babylonia is an example. What prescedent our government has set in 60 years post independence? The Japansese cleaned the stadium after a football match in a foreign nation. Can we imagine ourselves doing that in any foreseable future? We need to teach others the value of things. The value of living a noteworthy life. It's quite easy to blame the poor for this state of affairs but I ceartainly don't agree. They are the people with least of the means and hence the least littering class, and they are the people who take reuse in absolute seriousness.
Some our houses may be clean but almost none of our community places are. And why is that? Theatres, roads, bus stations, railway stations, in fact every other place where gathering take place.

Look at uttarakhand, Kashi, Kailash, Utthar Kashi, Shimala, Hrishikesh the proliferation on the hills. Why are we content with spoiling the beauty provided by nature. Why can't we create in harmony with it. Why can't we plan things to look beautiful, every one of us has an inherent understanding what looks good and what looks ugly. Why our education is inadequte to create a sense of hygiene and sanitation in the minds of our people. I am not providing any answers because I am searching for them myself, but you might as well start looking for them. Creating or maintaining beauty does not require more resources than we already have but requires a simple change in attitude. And if at all we feel we don't understand any of it we can turn our attention to the greatest designer, architect, artist in the universe - "Mother Nature".